# Extended Abstract

We have experimental and observational evidence that biodiversity enhance ecosystem functioning (Cardinale et al. 2006, Cardinale et al. 2012, Tilman et al. 2014), but the role of biodiversity for the stability of ecosystem functioning is less explored (but see Griffin et al. 2009, Grman et al.2010), specially for functions involving several trophic levels such as plant pollination (Ebeling et al. 2008, Winfree and Kremen 2009, Garibaldi et al.2011). Community temporal stability (estimated as the inverse of the coefficient of variation) is a property of ecological systems that results from the combination of different drivers such as species diversity, but also species synchrony (Blüthgen et al. 2018, Craven et al.2018, Valencia et al. 2020, Kigel et al. 2021). It has been observed that lower levels of synchrony in species fluctuations stabilize the community and that diversity has a positive effect on the temporal stability of community (Loreau et al. 2002, Ruijven and Berendse 2007, Blüthgen et al. 2016, Craven et al. 2018). Although it has been also shown that stability can associate more strongly with the degree of synchrony among dominant species than with species richness (Valencia et al 2020). [he añadido aqui la frase que estaba más abajo y he eliminado lo que sonaba redundante](). While community temporal stability should be related to the stability of ecosystem functions and services, there is limited evidence linking both processes on multitrophic systems. 

A key ecosistem function is plant reproductive success. Since the reproductive success of 87% wild plant species depends at least to some extent on pollination by animals (Ollerton et al. 2011), the stability of the pollinator communities may increase the plant reproductive success.A greater diversity of pollinators has been shown to increase the plant reproductive success as a result of complementary service provision arising from variation across of pollinator effectiveness, including space and time (Hoehn et al. 2008; Fründ et al. 2010, Albrecht et al. 2012, Blüthgen and Klein, 2013, Fründ et al. 2013). Pollinator species may exhibit different ranges of temporal activity (Pisanty et al. 2016, Rader et al. 2016) and consequently may provide pollination services at different times of the season. Other studies suggesting that a few dominant species are sufficient to provide a higher reproductive success of plants, i.e pollinator communities are dominated by a small number of common species, and that abundance fluctuations of these dominant species are often responsible for a majority of pollination service provision across an ecosystem (Kleijn et al 2015, Winfree et al 2015). [te refieres a algo asi?¿?]() [knowledge gap. Que es más importante, la complementariedad entre polinizadores? o la estabilidad del polinizador principal?]() 

It is known that yield stability of pollinator-dependent crops benefits from an increased pollinator diversity (Garibaldi et al. 2011, Geeraert et al. 2020) and that the yield stability can be affected by the stability of the visitation rate of pollinators (Hünicken et al. 2021). However,to our knowledge, there is not evidences how the stability of pollinator community may affect to the reproductive success of the wild plant community. [knoledge gap: que pasa a nivel de comunidad? cuando escalamos a la funcion de muchas plantas? Eso no lo sabemos]() 

In the current study, we investigate whether the plant reproductive success is affected by the stability of pollinator communities. In doing so, we analysed the relationship between fruit set and the seed set of X wild plants in 16 plots and the stability of pollinator communities (estimated as the inverse of the variation coefficient of visitation frequency) throughout four years. We also evaluated whether the synchrony and the species richness operate both directly, affecting plant reproductive success, and indirectly, via stability [he cambiado un poco la redaccion a ver si asi se entiende mejor]() 
We hypothesized that a more stable pollinator community with higher species richness and lower synchrony will increase the reproductive success of the plants. We could also expect that the most important determinant of stability will be the direct negative effect of synchrony and that the species richness will directly promote the reproductive success of plants.

# Methods-Analysis

Within each site (plot), 3-4 individuals per plant species (X total plant species) were marked. In 2015-2016, for each individual plant, the number of fruits per branch was recorded (at least 3 branches). The number of seeds per fruit and branch was counted and the weight per seed was obtained. In 2017-2018, the number of fruits per individual was registered and the number of seeds per individual (for at least 3 fruits) were counted. Also, the weight per seed was obtained.

For each site (plot) and year, the fruit set was estimated as the average proportion of fruit per individual and plant species. The seed set was calculated as the average number of seed per fruit and the average seed weigh per fruit (for each individual and plant species). We explored the correlation between these last two variables.
In addition, for each site (plot) and year, the total frequency of pollinators and the frequency for each pollinator order individually (Hymenoptera, Diptera and Coleoptera) were calculated per individual and plant species. Also, the number of pollinator species and the number of pollinator species contributing to 80% of total biomass were quantified per individual and plant species.

We assessed whether the fruit set and seed set are affected by the pollinator frequency and pollinator richness. We compared four models, 1) total pollinator frequency and pollinator richness, 2) total pollinator frequency and number of pollinator species contributing to 80% of total biomass, 3) frequency of Hymenoptera, Diptera, Coleoptera and pollinator richness, 4) frequency of Hymenoptera, Diptera, Coleoptera and number of pollinator species contributing to 80% of total biomass. Year and species plant were included as a random factor in all models. Models were compared using the Akaike Information Criterion (AIC)

# Stability analysis

We estimated the stability of the pollinator community as the inverse of the variation coefficient of visitation frequency (mean/SD) per site (16 plots) and year (4 years). We also calculated stability separately for Hymenoptera, Diptera and Coleoptera, and for variables fruit set and seed set.

In addition, we quantified the number of species in each site (plot), the number of species present all years (4 years) and the number of species contributing to 80% of total biomass. We explored the correlation between these variables.

We examined the synchrony using the Loreau and de Mazancourt (2008) φ index, the Gross et al (2014) η index and the weighted form of  η  index (Blüthgen et al., 2016), and the log of variance ratio (log VR) (Lepš et al., 2018).

We analysed pollinator stability and richness and synchrony. We also assessed whether the fruit and seed stability were related to the pollinator stability. Finally, we applied structural equation modelling (SEM) to test the relative importance of different variables as direct and indirect drivers of the plant reproductive success



Figure: 1) Graphical representation of the structural equation model (SEM) results; 2) relationships among stability, species richness and species asynchrony.


